1.2 release notes (#1099)
grafana/tempo: docs/tempo/website/release-notes/v1-2.md

## Features and enhancements

* Recent traces search! The headline feature of Tempo 1.2 is delivering search for the data that is still in the ingester. This mode is still considered experimental so it must be [enabled using feature flags in both Grafana and Tempo](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/latest/getting-started/tempo-in-grafana/#tempo-search).
* A [Scalable single binary](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/latest/operations/deployment/#scalable-single-binary) deployment mode was added. This deployment mode is operationally simpler but not as robust as a fully distributed setup. We consider it a balanced operational mode that some may find an attractive option.
* Massive performance improvements were made by [more efficiently batching](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/1075) trace data being ingested. In terms of CPU needed Tempo 1.2 is twice as efficient as 1.1!
* A number of informational endpoints were all consolidated under [/status](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/latest/api_docs/#status) and a few more were added.

## Upgrade considerations

> There are a few small things to be aware of when upgrading to Tempo 1.2:
> 
> * Support for v0 and v1 blocks were dropped as announced when 1.1 was cut. See the [1.1 changelog](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/releases/tag/v1.1.0) for details.
> * [Small adjustments](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/1007) were made to the Querier API. When rolling a deployment there will be a read outage until all queries and query frontends have rolled to the latest version.
> * Various configuration and status endpoints were consolidated under [/status](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/latest/api_docs/#status).
> * Two metrics ([`ingester_bytes_metric_total`](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/979), [`cortex_runtime_config_last_reload_successful`](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/945)) and one cli param ([`-storage.trace.blocklist_poll`](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/897)) were renamed for clarity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When upgrading to Tempo v1.2, be aware of these changes:

* Support for v0 and v1 blocks were dropped as announced with Tempo v1.1. Refer to the [Tempo v1.1 changelog](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/releases/tag/v1.1.0) for details.
* [PR 1007](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/1007) altered the Querier API. When upgrading components within a deployment, there will be a read outage until all queriers and query frontends have rolled to the upgraded version.
* API improvements consolidated informational endpoints within the [`status` endpoint](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/latest/api_docs/#status).
* Metric `ingester_bytes_metric_total` is renamed `ingester_bytes_received_total` by [PR 979](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/979).
* Metric `cortex_runtime_config_last_reload_successful` is renamed `tempo_runtime_config_last_reload_successful` by [PR 945](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/945).
* The `tempo-cli` flag `--storage.trace.maintenance-cycle` is renamed  `-storage.trace.blocklist_poll` by [PR 897](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/897).
```

## Bug fixes

### 1.2.0 bug fixes

> * Fix "magic number" errors and other block mishandling when an ingester forcefully shuts down [#937](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/issues/937) (@mdisibio)
> * Fix compactor memory leak [#806](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/806) (@mdisibio)
> * Set span's tag `span.kind` to `client` in query-frontend [#975](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/975) (@mapno)
> * Fix `tempodb_backend_hedged_roundtrips_total` to correctly count hedged roundtrips. [#1079](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/1079) (@joe-elliott) 
> * Update go-kit logger package to remove spurious debug logs [#1094](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/1094) (@bboreham)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed errors with magic numbers and other block mishandling when an ingester forcefully shuts down.  [Issue #937](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/issues/937) (@mdisibio)
* Fixed a memory leak in the compactor component.  [PR #806](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/806) (@mdisibio)
* Set a span's tag `span.kind` to `client` in query-frontend to allow query frontend spans to be paired with querier server spans. [PR #975](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/975) (@mapno)
*  Metric `tempodb_backend_hedged_roundtrips_total` now correctly counts hedged roundtrips. [PR #1079](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/1079) (@joe-elliott) 
* Updated the `go-kit` logger package to remove spurious debug logs. [PR #1094](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/pull/1094) (@bboreham)
```
